---
title: Who is Dear to God?
author: Sadhaka
layout: post
permalink: /dear-god/
ks_metadata:
  - 'a:7:{s:4:"lang";s:2:"en";s:8:"keywords";s:0:"";s:19:"keywords_autoupdate";s:1:"0";s:11:"description";s:0:"";s:22:"description_autoupdate";s:1:"0";s:5:"title";s:0:"";s:6:"robots";s:16:"noindex,nofollow";}'
wpr-options:
  - YToxOntpOjE7YToxMDp7czozOiJuaWQiO3M6MToiMSI7czo3OiJzdWJqZWN0IjtzOjA6IiI7czo4OiJ0ZXh0Ym9keSI7czowOiIiO3M6ODoiaHRtbGJvZHkiO3M6MDoiIjtzOjc6ImRpc2FibGUiO2k6MDtzOjE1OiJub2N1c3RvbWl6YXRpb24iO2k6MTtzOjEyOiJub3Bvc3RzZXJpZXMiO2k6MTtzOjEwOiJodG1sZW5hYmxlIjtpOjE7czoxMjoiYXR0YWNoaW1hZ2VzIjtpOjE7czoyMToic2tpcGFjdGl2ZXN1YnNjcmliZXJzIjtpOjE7fX0=
categories:
  - Hinduism
  - Spirituality
tags:
  - accumulation material goods
  - dear
  - dear god
  - devotee
  - devotee mind intellect
  - enjoyment accumulation material
  - free
  - gita
  - god
  - god devotee
  - jnana yogi
---
<p style="text-align: center;">
  Shree Hari
</p>

> Gist: A devotee whose mind – intellect is dedicated to God, is very dear to God. Love is indispensable to God, therefore a Devotee that sees no other reality besides God, is automatically dear to God. A devotee that sacrifices all work done for pleasure (enjoyment) and accumulation of material goods is dear to God. A devotee whose actions are free from desires and they are being performed primarily for pleasing God, is dear to God. .

<h2 style="text-align: center;">
  Who is Dear to God?  (Gita 12:13-16)
</h2>

<h3 style="text-align: center;">
  II Gita 13 -14 II
</h3>

**He who hates no beings, who is friendly and compassionate to all, who is free from sense of mineness (attachment) and egoism, and is even-minded in pleasure and pain, forgiving, ever content, self-controlled, unshakable in determination, with mind and intellect dedicated to Me, a Yogi, My devotee is dear to Me**.

Comments:

*In the Gita, qualities such as friendly and compassionate have not been referred to as the qualities of Karma Yogi nor Jnana Yogi. These qualities have only been associated with a Devotee. In Karma yogi and Jnana Yogi there is even-mindedness and balance, but not friendliness and compassion. But in a Devotee, there is friendliness and compassion from the very beginning.*

*In the eyes of a Devotee, besides God, there is no other, therefore who hates, and whom does he hate, and why does he hate? &#8220;Nij Prabhumai dekhahi jagat kehi sen karahi birodh&#8221; (Manasa, Uttar. 112 kha). Even if, Jnanayogi has the slightest bit of enmity, nevertheless, inherently in him are indifference, impartiality and abstinence. In the path of knowledge, importance is placed on detachment, which can be dry. Therefore even though the Jnana Yogi from within is not harsh, but due to detachment and indifference, outwardly he appears insensitive.*

*For every aspirant, it is essential to be free from a sense of mine-ness and egoism. In Gita it has been expressed that the goal of all three paths of yoga &#8211; karma yoga (2/71), jnana yoga (18/53) and bhakti yoga (12/13), is to be free from mine-ness and egoism. Because in reality our essential nature is free of attachment and egoism.*

*God&#8217;s essential nature is knowledge absolute. He, therefore, is not hungry for knowledge, but the yearning for Love is indispensable to Him. Therefore God says, that devotee whose mind – intellect is ever centered on Me, who dedicates these to me as a worshipful offering, is very dear to Me.*

<h3 style="text-align: center;">
  II Gita 12:15 II
</h3>

**He by whom, no being gets agitated (affected), and who is not agitated by any being, and who is free from mundane pleasures, anger, (envy), fear and anxiety – he is dear to Me.**

Comments:

*One experiences agitation, envy, and fear due to believing in the reality of many other things, instead of exclusively believing in the reality of God. From the perspective of a Devotee, besides God there is no other reality, then with whom will he get agitated, envious and fearful and why?*  
.

<h3 style="text-align: center;">
  II Gita 12:16 II
</h3>

**He who is free from wants, pure (inwardly and outwardly), alert, unconcerned and untroubled, renouncing all undertakings and commencement, that my Devotee is dear to Me.**

Comments:

*A devotees (darshan), touch, lectures purify others. Even the air that touches the devotee&#8217;s body is a purifier. Although such purifying ability is with a Jnana Yogi, great person, as well. Nevertheless, the devotee from the beginning having enormous sentiments for other&#8217;s spiritual progress (hit), is exceptionally pure.*

*A devotee has already done the work that was worthy of completion. In other words, the form and direction for God Realization is set, therefore he is qualified.*

*A devotee is one who totally sacrifices all work done for pleasure (enjoyment) and accumulation of material goods. All actions being performed through him are primarily for pleasing God. Not having the slightest worldly attachment remain, the devotee by himself, naturally worships only God.*

***<span style="text-decoration: underline;">From &#8220;Gita Prabodhani&#8221; by Swami Ramsukhdasji in Hindi</span>***

Ram Ram

SPECIAL NOTE:  
GITA PRABODHANI IN HINDI HAS NOW BEEN UPLOADED TO THE WEBSITE. IT IS THE SUMMARY OF 1,500 Pages of SADHAK SANJIVANI, a compilation of 80 YEARS OF SWAMI RAMSUKHDASJI&#8217; S DEEP UNDERSTANDING OF THE BHAGAVAD GITA, along with SPECIAL INSIGHTS and COMMENTS. Hindi readers, please DO NOT MISS this opportunity to read online at:  
<a href="http://www.swamiram sukhdasji. org/swamijibooks /pustak/pustak1/ html/geeta_ prabodhani_ shalok/main. htm" target="_blank">http://www.swamiram sukhdasji. org/swamijibooks /pustak/pustak1/ html/geeta_ prabodhani_ shalok/main. htm</a>

To gain clarification on the topic discussed in these daily messages, please send your questions to: gita-talk@yahoogrou ps.com

For full pravachans in Hindi please visit <a href="http://www.swamiramsukhdas ji.org" target="_blank">www.swamiramsukhdas ji.org</a>

To read online spiritual books, please visit <a href="http://www.swamiram sukhdasji. org/swamijibooks /" target="_blank">http://www.swamiram sukhdasji. org/swamijibooks /</a>

To read all previous messages, please visit: <a href="http://groups. yahoo.com/ group/sadhaka/" target="_blank">http://groups. yahoo.com/ group/sadhaka/</a>

P.S: Please pass on this message to whomever you think would benefit from the same.